Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a
very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice
the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of
her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys
had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy
anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn’t think
they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs.
Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley
pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her sister and her goodfornothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys
shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the
street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had
never even seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the
Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange
and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr.
Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs.
Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his
high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs.
Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but missed, because
Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car
and backed out of number four’s drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something
peculiar  a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize
what he had seen  then he jerked his head around to look again. There was
a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in
sight. What could he have been thinking of It must have been a trick of the
light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr.
Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his
mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive  no, looking at
the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little
shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of
nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something
else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn’t help noticing that
there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks.
Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear people who dressed in funny clothes  the getups
you saw on young people He supposed this was some stupid new fashion.
He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of
these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly
together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young
at all; why, that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emeraldgreen cloak The nerve of him But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was
probably some silly stunt  these people were obviously collecting for
something  yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes
later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on
drills.
Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,” said Hagrid.
A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a
vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools
behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass
scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. There were too many
doors to count leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were showing
people in and out of these. Hagrid and Harry made for the counter.
Morning,” said Hagrid to a free goblin. We’ve come ter take some
money outta Mr. Harry Potter’s safe.”
You have his key, sir”
Got it here somewhere,” said Hagrid, and he started emptying his pockets
onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblin’s
book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry watched the goblin on
their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing coals.
Got it,” said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key.
The goblin looked at it closely.
That seems to be in order.”
An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,” said Hagrid
importantly, throwing out his chest. It’s about the YouKnowWhat in vault
seven hundred and thirteen.”
The goblin read the letter carefully.
Very well,” he said, handing it back to Hagrid, I will have someone take
you down to both vaults. Griphook”
Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog
biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry followed Griphook toward one
of the doors leading off the hall.
What’s the YouKnowWhat in vault seven hundred and thirteen” Harry
asked.
Can’t tell yeh that,” said Hagrid mysteriously. Very secret. Hogwarts
business. Dumbledore’s trusted me. More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.”
Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who had expected more
marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with
flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little railway
tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came hurtling up the
tracks toward them. They climbed in  Hagrid with some difficulty  and
were off
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to concentrate on
drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping past in broad daylight,
though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed openmouthed
as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at
nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owlfree morning.
He yelled at five different people. He made several important telephone calls
and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when
he thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun
from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn’t know
why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering excitedly, too,
and he couldn’t see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past them,
clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they
were saying.
The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard ”
 yes, their son, Harry ”
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the
whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his
secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished
dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put the receiver back
down and stroked his mustache, thinking  no, he was being stupid. Potter
wasn’t such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called
Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure
his nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It might have
been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she
always got so upset at any mention of her sister. He didn’t blame her  if
he’d had a sister like that  but all the same, those people in cloaks
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when he
left the building at five o’clock, he was still so worried that he walked
straight into someone just outside the door.
Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was a
few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet
cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On
the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice
that made passersby stare, Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could
upset me today Rejoice, for YouKnowWho has gone at last Even Muggles
like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day”
The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number
four on the Dursleys’ front door; it crept into their living room, which was
almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had
seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the
mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there
had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing
differentcolored bonnets  but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and
now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a
carousel at the fair, playing a computer game with his father, being hugged
and kissed by his mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy lived
in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. His
Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise
of the day.
Up Get up Now”
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
Up” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back
and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a good one.
There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the
same dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
Are you up yet” she demanded.
Nearly,” said Harry.
Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.”
Harry groaned.
What did you say” his aunt snapped through the door.
Nothing, nothing ”
Dudley’s birthday  how could he have forgotten Harry got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after
pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to spiders,
because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and that was where he
slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as
though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention the
second television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing
bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise 
unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching
bag was Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he
was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of
Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry had a
thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round
glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley
had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked about his own
appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of
lightning. He had had it as long as he could remember, and the first question
he could ever remember asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. And don’t ask
questions.”
Don’t ask questions  that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.
Comb your hair” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper
and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the boys in his class put together, but it made no difference,
his hair simply grew that way  all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not
much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly
on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby
angel  Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult as
there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents. His
face fell.
Thirtysix,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. That’s two less
than last year.”
Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s here under
this big one from Mummy and Daddy.”
All right, thirtyseven then,” said Dudley, going red in the face. Harry,
who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing down his
bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly,
And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that,
popkin Two more presents. Is that all right”
Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he said
slowly, So I’ll have thirty  thirty ”
Thirtynine, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia.
Oh.” Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. All right
then.”
Uncle Vernon chuckled.
Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. ’Atta boy,
Dudley” He ruffled Dudley’s hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer it
while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, a
video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and a
VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia
came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried.
Bad news, Vernon,” she said. Mrs. Figg’s broken her leg. She can’t take
him.” She jerked her head in Harry’s direction.
Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror, but Harry’s heart gave a leap. Every
year on Dudley’s birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for the day,
to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every year, Harry
was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away.
Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg
made him look at photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned.
Now what” said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as though he’d
planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg had broken her
leg, but it wasn’t easy when he reminded himself it would be a whole year
before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again.
We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested.
Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.”
The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn’t there
 or rather, as though he was something very nasty that couldn’t understand
them, like a slug.
What about what’shername, your friend  Yvonne”
On vacation in Majorca,” snapped Aunt Petunia.
You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully he’d be able to
watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go
on Dudley’s computer.
Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a lemon.
And come back and find the house in ruins” she snarled.
I won’t blow up the house,” said Harry, but they weren’t listening.
I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt Petunia slowly, 
and leave him in the car .”
That car’s new, he’s not sitting in it alone .”
Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really crying  it had been
years since he’d really cried  but he knew that if he screwed up his face
and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.
Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him spoil your special
day” she cried, flinging her arms around him.
I  don’t  want  him  ttto come” Dudley yelled between
huge, pretend sobs. He always spspoils everything” He shot Harry a nasty
grin through the gap in his mother’s arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang Oh, good Lord, they’re here” said Aunt
Petunia frantically  and a moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss,
walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat. He
was usually the one who held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley
hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his luck, was sitting in the
back of the Dursleys’ car with Piers and Dudley, on the way to the zoo for the
first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn’t been able to think of anything
else to do with him, but before they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry
aside.
I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple face right up close
to Harry’s, I’m warning you now, boy  any funny business, anything at all
 and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until Christmas.”
I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, honestly ”
But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry and it was
just no good telling the Dursleys he didn’t make them happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking
as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut
his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs, which she left to
hide that horrible scar.” Dudley had laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent
a sleepless night imagining school the next day, where he was already
laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however,
he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt Petunia
had sheared it off. He had been given a week in his cupboard for this, even
though he had tried to explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown back
so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting
old sweater of Dudley’s brown with orange puff balls. The harder she tried
to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until finally it might
have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had
decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t
punished.
On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the
roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been chasing him as usual
when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he was sitting on
the chimney. The Dursleys had received a very angry letter from Harry’s
headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all
he’d tried to do as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of
his cupboard was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen doors.
Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in midjump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with
Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn’t school, his
cupboard, or Mrs. Figg’s cabbagesmelling living room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He liked to
complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank,
and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning, it was
motorcycles.
 roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” he said, as a
motorcycle overtook them.
I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering suddenly.
It was flying.”
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned right around
in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache:
MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY”
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
I know they don’t,” said Harry. It was only a dream.”
But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the Dursleys
hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking about anything
acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a dream or even a cartoon
 they seemed to think he might get dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The
Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance
and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry what he
wanted before they could hurry him away, they bought him a cheap lemon
ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they watched a
gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley, except that it
wasn’t blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were
starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on
their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when
Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough
ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was
allowed to finish the first.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in there,
with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and
snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Dudley and
Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick, mancrushing pythons.
Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its
body twice around Uncle Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can  but
at the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.
Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn’t budge.
Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly with
his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He
wouldn’t have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself  no company
except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it
all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the
only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up; at
least he got to visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren’t. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised its
eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with
a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard,
but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles under all the hair.
The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just
brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it easily
back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. He turned
to look at them all.
Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh It’s not been an easy
journe .”
He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.
Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger.
Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was crouching,
terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.
An’ here’s Harry” said the giant.
Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the beetle
eyes were crinkled in a smile.
Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the giant. Yeh look a lot
like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer mum’s eyes.”
Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.
I demand that you leave at once, sir” he said. You are breaking and
entering”
Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,” said the giant; he reached over the
back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon’s hands, bent it into a
knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw it into a corner of
the room.
Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on.
Anyway  Harry,” said the giant, turning his back on the Dursleys, a
very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here  I mighta sat on it at
some point, but it’ll taste all right.”
From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly squashed
box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky
chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green icing.
Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but the words got
lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was, Who are you”
The giant chuckled.
True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and
Grounds at Hogwarts.”
He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry’s whole arm.
What about that tea then, eh” he said, rubbing his hands together. I’d
not say no ter summat stronger if yeh’ve got it, mind.”
His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and he
snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn’t see what he was
doing but when he drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire there. It
filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt the warmth
wash over him as though he’d sunk into a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle,
a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a
bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from before starting to make
tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody
said a thing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy,
slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon
said sharply, Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley.”
The giant chuckled darkly.
Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ anymore, Dursley, don’
worry.”
He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had never tasted
anything so wonderful, but he still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant.
Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said, I’m sorry, but
I still don’t really know who you are.”
The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his
hand.
Call me Hagrid,” he said, everyone does. An’ like I told yeh, I’m Keeper
of Keys at Hogwarts  yeh’ll know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.”
Er  no,” said Harry.
Hagrid looked shocked.
Sorry,” Harry said quickly.
Sorry” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back
into the shadows. It’s them as should be sorry I knew yeh weren’t gettin’
yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even know abou’ Hogwarts, fer
cryin’ out loud Did yeh never wonder where yer parents learned it all”
All what” asked Harry.
ALL WHAT” Hagrid thundered. Now wait jus’ one second”
He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut. The
Dursleys were cowering against the wall.
Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Dursleys, that this boy 
this boy  knows nothin’ abou’ about ANYTHING”
Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to school, after all, and
his marks weren’t bad.
I know some things,” he said. I can, you know, do math and stuff.”
But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, About our world, I mean.
Your world. My world. Yer parents’ world.”
What world”
Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.
DURSLEY” he boomed.
Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded
like Mimblewimble.” Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.
But yeh must know about yer mum and dad,” he said. I mean, they’re
famous. You’re famous.”
What My  my mum and dad weren’t famous, were they”
Yeh don’ know  yeh don’ know ” Hagrid ran his fingers through his
hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.
Yeh don’ know what yeh are” he said finally.
Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.
Stop” he commanded. Stop right there, sir I forbid you to tell the boy
anything”
A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious
look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled
with rage.
You never told him Never told him what was in the letter Dumbledore
left fer him I was there I saw Dumbledore leave it, Dursley An’ you’ve
kept it from him all these years”
Kept what from me” said Harry eagerly.
STOP I FORBID YOU” yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.
Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.
Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Hagrid. Harry  yer a wizard.”
There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind could
be heard.
I’m a what” gasped Harry.
A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which
groaned and sank even lower, an’ a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve
been trained up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else would yeh
be An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read yer letter.”
Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope,
addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, HutontheRock,
The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:
Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough
human left in him to die. Some say he’s still out there, bidin’ his time, like,
but I don’ believe it. People who was on his side came back ter ours. Some of
’em came outta kinda trances. Don’ reckon they could’ve done if he was
comin’ back.
Most of us reckon he’s still out there somewhere but lost his powers. Too
weak to carry on. ’Cause somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was
somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t counted on  I dunno what it was,
no one does  but somethin’ about you stumped him, all right.”
Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes, but
Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a
horrible mistake. A wizard Him How could he possibly be He’d spent his
life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon;
if he was really a wizard, why hadn’t they been turned into warty toads every
time they’d tried to lock him in his cupboard If he’d once defeated the
greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always been able to
kick him around like a football
Hagrid,” he said quietly, I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t
think I can be a wizard.”
To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.
Not a wizard, eh Never made things happen when you was scared or
angry”
Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about
 Harry had never been to London before. Although Hagrid seemed to know
where he was going, he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary
way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, and complained
loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow.
I don’t know how the Muggles manage without magic,” he said as they
climbed a brokendown escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with
shops.
Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily; all Harry had to do
was keep close behind him. They passed book shops and music stores,
hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it could sell
you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people.
Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them Were
there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks Might this not all be
some huge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up If Harry hadn’t known that
the Dursleys had no sense of humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow,
even though everything Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry
couldn’t help trusting him.
it every odd
thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious with him had happened
when he, Harry, had been upset or angr chased by Dudley’s gang, he
had somehow found himself out of their reach  dreading going to school
with that ridiculous haircut, he’d managed to make it grow back  and the
very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn’t he got his revenge, without even
realizing he was doing it Hadn’t he set a boa constrictor on him
Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively
beaming at him.
See” said Hagrid. Harry Potter, not a wizard  you wait, you’ll be
right famous at Hogwarts.”
But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a fight.
Haven’t I told you he’s not going” he hissed. He’s going to Stonewall
High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters and he needs all sorts
of rubbish  spell books and wands and ”
If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him,” growled
Hagrid. Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s son goin’ ter Hogwarts Yer mad. His
name’s been down ever since he was born. He’s off ter the finest school of
witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he won’t know
himself. He’ll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be
under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbled
I get that all the time.”
I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t sure the
snake could hear him. It must be really annoying.”
The snake nodded vigorously.
Where do you come from, anyway” Harry asked.
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
Was it nice there”
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on: This
specimen was bred in the zoo. Oh, I see  so you’ve never been to Brazil”
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of
them jump. DUDLEY MR. DURSLEY COME AND LOOK AT THIS
SNAKE YOU WON’T BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING”
Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.
Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by
surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened so
fast no one saw how it happened  one second, Piers and Dudley were
leaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back with howls of
horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s tank had
vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the
floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and started running for
the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low, hissing
voice said, Brazil, here I come . Thanksss, amigo.”
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
But the glass,” he kept saying, where did the glass go”
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea
while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber.
As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything except snap
playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were all back in
Uncle Vernon’s car, Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his
leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst
of all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say, Harry was
talking to it, weren’t you, Harry”
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting
on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. He managed to say, Go
 cupboard  stay  no meals,” before he collapsed into a chair, and Aunt
Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy.
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch. He didn’t
know what time it was and he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet.
Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the kitchen for some food.
He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as long
as he could remember, ever since he’d been a baby and his parents had died
in that car crash. He couldn’t remember being in the car when his parents had
died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long hours in his
cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light
and a burning pain on his forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, though
he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came from. He couldn’t
remember his parents at all. His aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and
of course he was forbidden to ask questions. There were no photographs of
them in the house.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some
unknown relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought or maybe hoped
that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers they
were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once while out
shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry furiously if he
knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying
anything. A wildlooking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily
at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually
shaken his hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a
word. The weirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed to
vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s gang hated
that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and
nobody liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.
summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his new video
camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first time out on his racing
bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet Drive on her
crutches.
Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley’s gang,
who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon
were all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and stupidest of the lot,
he was the leader. The rest of them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s
favorite sport: Harry Hunting.
This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house,
wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he could
see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going off to
secondary school and, for the first time in his life, he wouldn’t be with
Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at Uncle Vernon’s old private school,
Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on the other hand, was
going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudley thought this was
very funny.
They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,” he
told Harry. Want to come upstairs and practice”
No, thanks,” said Harry. The poor toilet’s never had anything as horrible
as your head down it  it might be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could
work out what he’d said.
One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy his Smeltings
uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. Figg’s. Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. It
turned out she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats, and she didn’t
seem quite as fond of them as before. She let Harry watch television and gave
him a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for several
years.
That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room for the family in his
brandnew uniform. Smeltings boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange
knickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried knobbly
sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren’t looking. This
was supposed to be good training for later life.
As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into
tears and said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, he looked so
handsome and grownup. Harry didn’t trust himself to speak. He thought two
of his ribs might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.
There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry went
in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. He
went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like dirty rags
swimming in gray water.
What’s this” he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened as they always
did if he dared to ask a question.
Your new school uniform,” she said.
Harry looked in the bowl again.
Oh,” he said, I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.”
Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. I’m dyeing some of Dudley’s
old things gray for you. It’ll look just like everyone else’s when I’ve
finished.”
Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. He sat down
at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look on his first
day at Stonewall High  like he was wearing bits of old elephant skin,
probably.
Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of
the smell from Harry’s new uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which he carried everywhere, on
the table.
They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat.
Get the mail, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon from behind his paper.
Make Harry get it.”
Get the mail, Harry.”
Make Dudley get it.”
Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley.”
Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Three things lay
on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon’s sister Marge, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a bill,
and  a letter for Harry.
Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant elastic
band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him. Who would He had
no friends, no other relatives  he didn’t belong to the library, so he’d never
even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed
so plainly there could be no mistake:
Mr. H. Potter
The Cupboard under the Stairs
4 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey
The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the
address was written in emeraldgreen ink. There was no stamp.
Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw a purple wax
seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake
surrounding a large letter H.
Hurry up, boy” shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. What are you
doing, checking for letter bombs” He chuckled at his own joke.
Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. He handed Uncle
Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to open the
yellow envelope.
Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over the
postcard.
Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. Ate a funny whelk ”
Dad” said Dudley suddenly. Dad, Harry’s got something”
Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which was written on the
same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of his
hand by Uncle Vernon.
That’s mine” said Harry, trying to snatch it back.
Who’d be writing to you” sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the letter open
with one hand and glancing at it. His face went from red to green faster than a
set of traffic lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seconds it was the grayish
white of old porridge.
PPPetunia” he gasped.
Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held it high out
of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read the first line. For a
moment it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her throat and
made a choking noise.
Vernon Oh my goodness  Vernon”
They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry and Dudley
were still in the room. Dudley wasn’t used to being ignored. He gave his
father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.
I want to read that letter,” he said loudly.
I want to read it,” said Harry furiously, as it’s mine.”
Get out, both of you,” croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing the letter back
inside its envelope.
Harry didn’t move.
I WANT MY LETTER” he shouted.
Let me see it” demanded Dudley.
OUT” roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and Dudley by the
scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming the kitchen door
behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but silent fight over
who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry, his glasses dangling
from one ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack between door and
floor.
Vernon,” Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, look at the
address  how could they possibly know where he sleeps You don’t think
they’re watching the house”
Watching  spying  might be following us,” muttered Uncle Vernon
wildly.
But what should we do, Vernon Should we write back Tell them we
don’t want ”
Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes pacing up and down the
kitchen.
No,” he said finally. No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t get an answer .
Yes, that’s best  we won’t do anything .”
But ”
I’m not having one in the house, Petunia Didn’t we swear when we took
him in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense”
That evening when he got back from work, Uncle Vernon did something he’d
never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.
Where’s my letter” said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed
through the door. Who’s writing to me”
No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said Uncle Vernon shortly.
I have burned it.”
It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, it had my cupboard on it.”
SILENCE” yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell from the
ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced his face into a smile,
which looked quite painful.
Er  yes, Harry  about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been
thinking  you’re really getting a bit big for it  we think it might be nice
if you moved into Dudley’s second bedroom.”
Why” said Harry.
Don’t ask questions” snapped his uncle. Take this stuff upstairs, now.”
The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia, one for visitors usually Uncle Vernon’s sister, Marge, one where
Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys and things that
wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It only took Harry one trip upstairs to
move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. He sat down on
the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here was broken. The
monthold video camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley
had once driven over the next door neighbor’s dog; in the corner was
Dudley’s firstever television set, which he’d put his foot through when his
favorite program had been canceled; there was a large birdcage, which had
once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school for a real air rifle,
which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley had sat on it.
Other shelves were full of books. They were the only things in the room that
looked as though they’d never been touched.
From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his mother, I don’t
want him in there  I need that room  make him get out .”
Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he’d have given
anything to be up here. Today he’d rather be back in his cupboard with that
letter than up here without it.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley was in shock.
He’d screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, been sick on
purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the greenhouse
roof, and he still didn’t have his room back. Harry was thinking about this
time yesterday and bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall. Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each other darkly.
When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying to be nice
to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him banging things with his
Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, There’s another
one ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive ’”
With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the
hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the
ground to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the fact that
Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a
minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting
stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter
clutched in his hand.
Go to your cupboard  I mean, your bedroom,” he wheezed at Harry.
Dudley  go  just go.”
Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had
moved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn’t received his
first letter. Surely that meant they’d try again And this time he’d make sure
they didn’t fail. He had a plan.
The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next morning. Harry turned it
off quickly and dressed silently. He mustn’t wake the Dursleys. He stole
downstairs without turning on any of the lights.
He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and get
the letters for number four first. His heart hammered as he crept across the
dark hall toward the front door 
AAAAARRRGH”
Harry leapt into the air; he’d trodden on something big and squashy on the
doormat  something alive
Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the big,
squashy something had been his uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at
the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making sure that Harry
didn’t do exactly what he’d been trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about
half an hour and then told him to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled
miserably off into the kitchen and by the time he got back, the mail had
arrived, right into Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters addressed
in green ink.
I want ” he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing the letters into pieces
before his eyes.
Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at home and nailed up
the mail slot.
See,” he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails, if they
can’t deliver them they’ll just give up.”
I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon.”
Oh, these people’s minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they’re not like
you and me,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of
fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.
On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Harry. As they couldn’t go
through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door, slotted through
the sides, and a few even forced through the small window in the downstairs
bathroom.
Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, he got out
a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and back
doors so no one could go out. He hummed Tiptoe Through the Tulips” as he
worked, and jumped at small noises.
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twentyfour letters to Harry
found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two
dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Petunia
through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious
telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to
complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor.
Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly” Dudley asked Harry in
amazement.
On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table looking
tired and rather ill, but happy.
No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully as he spread
marmalade on his newspapers, no damn letters today ”
Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and
caught him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty
letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys ducked, but
Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one 
Out OUT”
Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him into the hall.
When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with their arms over their faces,
Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters still
streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.
That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling great
tufts out of his mustache at the same time. I want you all back here in five
minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack some clothes. No
arguments”
He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing that no one dared
argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the boardedup
doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway. Dudley was
sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round the head for holding
them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and computer in his
sports bag.
They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn’t dare ask where
they were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn
and drive in the opposite direction for a while.
Shake ’em off  shake ’em off,” he would mutter whenever he did this.
They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley was howling.
He’d never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry, he’d missed five
television programs he’d wanted to see, and he’d never gone so long without
blowing up an alien on his computer.
Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomylooking hotel on the
outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds and
damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting on the
windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and wondering .
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the
next day. They had just finished when the owner of the hotel came over to
their table.
’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter Only I got about an ’undred
of these at the front desk.”
She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:
Mr. H. Potter
Room 17
Railview Hotel
Cokeworth
Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out of
the way. The woman stared.
I’ll take them,” said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and following her
from the dining room.
Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear” Aunt Petunia suggested
timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn’t seem to hear her. Exactly what
he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into the middle of a
forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got back in the car, and off
they went again. The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed field,
halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of a multilevel parking
garage.
Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he” Dudley asked Aunt Petunia dully late that
afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside the
car, and disappeared.
It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dudley sniveled.
It’s Monday,” he told his mother. The Great Humberto’s on tonight. I
want to stay somewhere with a television.”
Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday  and you
could usually count on Dudley to know the days of the week, because of
television  then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh birthday. Of
course, his birthdays were never exactly fun  last year, the Dursleys had
given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still, you
weren’t eleven every day.
Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn’t answer Aunt Petunia when she asked what he’d
bought.
Found the perfect place” he said. Come on Everyone out”
It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what looked
like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most
miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was certain, there was no
television in there.
Storm forecast for tonight” said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping his
hands together. And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat”
A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather
wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the irongray water below them.
I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon, so all aboard”
It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their necks
and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like hours they
reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding, led the way to
the brokendown house.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind whistled
through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty.
There were only two rooms.
Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and
shriveled up.
Could do with some of those letters now, eh” he said cheerfully.
He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a chance
of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed,
though the thought didn’t cheer him up at all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy
windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second room and
made up a bed for Dudley on the motheaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon
went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find the softest bit
of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket.
The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Harry
couldn’t sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable, his
stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s snores were drowned by the low
rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of Dudley’s
watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told
Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. He lay and watched his birthday
tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all, wondering
where the letter writer was now.
Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He hoped the
roof wasn’t going to fall in, although he might be warmer if it did. Four
minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters
when they got back that he’d be able to steal one somehow.
Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like that
And two minutes to go what was that funny crunching noise Was the rock
crumbling into the sea
One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds  twenty  ten
nine  maybe he’d wake Dudley up, just to annoy him  three  two
one
BOOM.
The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at the door.
Someone was outside, knocking to come in