full of books. They were the only things in the room that
looked as though they’d never been touched.
From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his mother, I don’t
want him in there  I need that room  make him get out .”
Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he’d have given
anything to be up here. Today he’d rather be back in his cupboard with that
letter than up here without it.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley was in shock.
He’d screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, been sick on
purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the greenhouse
roof, and he still didn’t have his room back. Harry was thinking about this
time yesterday and bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall. Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each other darkly.
When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying to be nice
to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him banging things with his
Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, There’s another
one ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive ’”
With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the
hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the
ground to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the fact that
Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a
minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting
stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter
clutched in his hand.
Go to your cupboard  I mean, your bedroom,” he wheezed at Harry.
Dudley  go  just go.”
Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had
moved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn’t received his
first letter. Surely that meant they’d try again And this time he’d make sure
they didn’t fail. He had a plan.
The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next morning. Harry turned it
off quickly and dressed silently. He mustn’t wake the Dursleys. He stole
downstairs without turning on any of the lights.
He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and get
the letters for number four first. His heart hammered as he crept across the
dark hall toward the front door 
AAAAARRRGH”
Harry leapt into the air; he’d trodden on something big and squashy on the
doormat  something alive
Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the big,
squashy something had been his uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at
the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making sure that Harry
didn’t do exactly what he’d been trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about
half an hour and then told him to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled
miserably off into the kitchen and by the time he got back, the mail had
arrived, right into Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters addressed
in green ink.
I want ” he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing the letters into pieces
before his eyes.
Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at home and nailed up
the mail slot.
See,” he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails, if they
can’t deliver them they’ll just give up.”
I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon.”
Oh, these people’s minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they’re not like
you and me,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of
fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.
On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Harry. As they couldn’t go
through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door, slotted through
the sides, and a few even forced through the small window in the downstairs
bathroom.
Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, he got out
a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and back
doors so no one could go out. He hummed Tiptoe Through the Tulips” as he
worked, and jumped at small noises.
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twentyfour letters to Harry
found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two
dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Petunia
through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious
telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to
complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor.
Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly” Dudley asked Harry in
amazement.
On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table looking
tired and rather ill, but happy.
No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully as he spread
marmalade on his newspapers, no damn letters today ”
Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and
caught him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty
letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys ducked, but
Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one 
Out OUT”
Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him into the hall.
When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with their arms over their faces,
Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters still
streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.
That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling great
tufts out of his mustache at the same time. I want you all back here in five
minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack some clothes. No
arguments”
He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing that no one dared
argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the boardedup
doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway. Dudley was
sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round the head for holding
them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and computer in his
sports bag.
They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn’t dare ask where
they were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn
and drive in the opposite direction for a while.
Shake ’em off  shake ’em off,” he would mutter whenever he did this.
They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley was howling.
He’d never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry, he’d missed five
television programs he’d wanted to see, and he’d never gone so long without
blowing up an alien on his computer.
Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomylooking hotel on the
outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds and
damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting on the
windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and wondering .
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the
next day. They had just finished when the owner of the hotel came over to
their table.
’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter Only I got about an ’undred
of these at the front desk.”
She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:
Mr. H. Potter
Room 17
Railview Hotel
Cokeworth
Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out of
the way. The woman stared.
I’ll take them,” said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and following her
from the dining room.
Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear” Aunt Petunia suggested
timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn’t seem to hear her. Exactly what
he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into the middle of a
forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got back in the car, and off
they went again. The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed field,
halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of a multilevel parking
garage.
Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he” Dudley asked Aunt Petunia dully late that
afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside the
car, and disappeared.
It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dudley sniveled.
It’s Monday,” he told his mother. The Great Humberto’s on tonight. I
want to stay somewhere with a television.”
Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday  and you
could usually count on Dudley to know the days of the week, because of
television  then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh birthday. Of
course, his birthdays were never exactly fun  last year, the Dursleys had
given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still, you
weren’t eleven every day.
Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn’t answer Aunt Petunia when she asked what he’d
bought.
Found the perfect place” he said. Come on Everyone out”
It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what looked
like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most
miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was certain, there was no
television in there.
Storm forecast for tonight” said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping his
hands together. And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat”
A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather
wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the irongray water below them.
I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon, so all aboard”
It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their necks
and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like hours they
reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding, led the way to
the brokendown house.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind whistled
through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty.
There were only two rooms.
Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and
shriveled up.
Could do with some of those letters now, eh” he said cheerfully.
He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a chance
of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed,
though the thought didn’t cheer him up at all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy
windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second room and
made up a bed for Dudley on the motheaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon
went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find the softest bit
of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket.
The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Harry
couldn’t sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable, his
stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s snores were drowned by the low
rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of Dudley’s
watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told
Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. He lay and watched his birthday
tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all, wondering
where the letter writer was now.
Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He hoped the
roof wasn’t going to fall in, although he might be warmer if it did. Four
minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters
when they got back that he’d be able to steal one somehow.
Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like that
And two minutes to go what was that funny crunching noise Was the rock
crumbling into the sea
One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds  twenty  ten
nine  maybe he’d wake Dudley up, just to annoy him  three  two
one
BOOM.
The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at the door.
Someone was outside, knocking to come in