Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a
very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice
the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of
her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys
had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy
anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn’t think
they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs.
Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley
pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her sister and her goodfornothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys
shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the
street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had
never even seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the
Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange
and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr.
Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs.
Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his
high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs.
Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but missed, because
Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car
and backed out of number four’s drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something
peculiar  a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize
what he had seen  then he jerked his head around to look again. There was
a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in
sight. What could he have been thinking of It must have been a trick of the
light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr.
Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his
mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive  no, looking at
the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little
shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of
nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something
else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn’t help noticing that
there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks.
Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear people who dressed in funny clothes  the getups
you saw on young people He supposed this was some stupid new fashion.
He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of
these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly
together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young
at all; why, that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emeraldgreen cloak The nerve of him But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was
probably some silly stunt  these people were obviously collecting for
something  yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes
later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on
drills.
Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,” said Hagrid.
A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a
vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools
behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass
scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. There were too many
doors to count leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were showing
people in and out of these. Hagrid and Harry made for the counter.
Morning,” said Hagrid to a free goblin. We’ve come ter take some
money outta Mr. Harry Potter’s safe.”
You have his key, sir”
Got it here somewhere,” said Hagrid, and he started emptying his pockets
onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblin’s
book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry watched the goblin on
their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing coals.
Got it,” said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key.
The goblin looked at it closely.
That seems to be in order.”
An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,” said Hagrid
importantly, throwing out his chest. It’s about the YouKnowWhat in vault
seven hundred and thirteen.”
The goblin read the letter carefully.
Very well,” he said, handing it back to Hagrid, I will have someone take
you down to both vaults. Griphook”
Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog
biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry followed Griphook toward one
of the doors leading off the hall.
What’s the YouKnowWhat in vault seven hundred and thirteen” Harry
asked.
Can’t tell yeh that,” said Hagrid mysteriously. Very secret. Hogwarts
business. Dumbledore’s trusted me. More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.”
Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who had expected more
marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with
flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little railway
tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came hurtling up the
tracks toward them. They climbed in  Hagrid with some difficulty  and
were off
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to concentrate on
drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping past in broad daylight,
though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed openmouthed
as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at
nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owlfree morning.
He yelled at five different people. He made several important telephone calls
and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when
he thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun
from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn’t know
why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering excitedly, too,
and he couldn’t see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past them,
clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they
were saying.
The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard ”
 yes, their son, Harry ”
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the
whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his
secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished
dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put the receiver back
down and stroked his mustache, thinking  no, he was being stupid. Potter
wasn’t such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called
Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure
his nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It might have
been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she
always got so upset at any mention of her sister. He didn’t blame her  if
he’d had a sister like that  but all the same, those people in cloaks
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when he
left the building at five o’clock, he was still so worried that he walked
straight into someone just outside the door.
Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was a
few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet
cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On
the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice
that made passersby stare, Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could
upset me today Rejoice, for YouKnowWho has gone at last Even Muggles
like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day”
The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number
four on the Dursleys’ front door; it crept into their living room, which was
almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had
seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the
mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there
had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing
differentcolored bonnets  but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and
now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a
carousel at the fair, playing a computer game with his father, being hugged
and kissed by his mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy lived
in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. His
Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise
of the day.
Up Get up Now”
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
Up” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back
and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a good one.
There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the
same dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
Are you up yet” she demanded.
Nearly,” said Harry.
Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.”
Harry groaned.
What did you say” his aunt snapped through the door.
Nothing, nothing ”
Dudley’s birthday  how could he have forgotten Harry got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after
pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to spiders,
because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and that was where he
slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as
though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention the
second television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing
bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise 
unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching
bag was Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he
was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of
Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry had a
thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round
glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley
had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked about his own
appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of
lightning. He had had it as long as he could remember, and the fi