rst question
he could ever remember asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. And don’t ask
questions.”
Don’t ask questions  that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.
Comb your hair” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper
and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the boys in his class put together, but it made no difference,
his hair simply grew that way  all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not
much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly
on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby
angel  Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult as
there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents. His
face fell.
Thirtysix,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. That’s two less
than last year.”
Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s here under
this big one from Mummy and Daddy.”
All right, thirtyseven then,” said Dudley, going red in the face. Harry,
who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing down his
bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly,
And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that,
popkin Two more presents. Is that all right”
Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he said
slowly, So I’ll have thirty  thirty ”
Thirtynine, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia.
Oh.” Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. All right
then.”
Uncle Vernon chuckled.
Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. ’Atta boy,
Dudley” He ruffled Dudley’s hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer it
while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, a
video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and a
VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia
came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried.
Bad news, Vernon,” she said. Mrs. Figg’s broken her leg. She can’t take
him.” She jerked her head in Harry’s direction.
Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror, but Harry’s heart gave a leap. Every
year on Dudley’s birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for the day,
to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every year, Harry
was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away.
Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg
made him look at photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned.
Now what” said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as though he’d
planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg had broken her
leg, but it wasn’t easy when he reminded himself it would be a whole year
before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again.
We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested.
Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.”
The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn’t there
 or rather, as though he was something very nasty that couldn’t understand
them, like a slug.
What about what’shername, your friend  Yvonne”
On vacation in Majorca,” snapped Aunt Petunia.
You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully he’d be able to
watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go
on Dudley’s computer.
Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a lemon.
And come back and find the house in ruins” she snarled.
I won’t blow up the house,” said Harry, but they weren’t listening.
I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt Petunia slowly, 
and leave him in the car .”
That car’s new, he’s not sitting in it alone .”
Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really crying  it had been
years since he’d really cried  but he knew that if he screwed up his face
and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.
Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him spoil your special
day” she cried, flinging her arms around him.
I  don’t  want  him  ttto come” Dudley yelled between
huge, pretend sobs. He always spspoils everything” He shot Harry a nasty
grin through the gap in his mother’s arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang Oh, good Lord, they’re here” said Aunt
Petunia frantically  and a moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss,
walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat. He
was usually the one who held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley
hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his luck, was sitting in the
back of the Dursleys’ car with Piers and Dudley, on the way to the zoo for the
first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn’t been able to think of anything
else to do with him, but before they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry
aside.
I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple face right up close
to Harry’s, I’m warning you now, boy  any funny business, anything at all
 and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until Christmas.”
I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, honestly ”
But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry and it was
just no good telling the Dursleys he didn’t make them happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking
as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut
his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs, which she left to
hide that horrible scar.” Dudley had laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent
a sleepless night imagining school the next day, where he was already
laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however,
he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt Petunia
had sheared it off. He had been given a week in his cupboard for this, even
though he had tried to explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown back
so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting
old sweater of Dudley’s brown with orange puff balls. The harder she tried
to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until finally it might
have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had
decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t
punished.
On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the
roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been chasing him as usual
when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he was sitting on
the chimney. The Dursleys had received a very angry letter from Harry’s
headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all
he’d tried to do as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of
his cupboard was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen doors.
Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in midjump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with
Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn’t school, his
cupboard, or Mrs. Figg’s cabbagesmelling living room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He liked to
complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank,
and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning, it was
motorcycles.
 roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” he said, as a
motorcycle overtook them.
I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering suddenly.
It was flying.”
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned right around
in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache:
MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY”
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
I know they don’t,” said Harry. It was only a dream.”
But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the Dursleys
hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking about anything
acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a dream or even a cartoon
 they seemed to think he might get dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The
Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance
and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry what he
wanted before they could hurry him away, they bought him a cheap lemon
ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they watched a
gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley, except that it
wasn’t blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were
starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on
their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when
Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough
ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was
allowed to finish the first.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in there,
with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and
snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Dudley and
Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick, mancrushing pythons.
Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its
body twice around Uncle Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can  but
at the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.
Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn’t budge.
Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly with
his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He
wouldn’t have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself  no company
except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it
all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the
only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up; at
least he got to visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren’t. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised its
eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with
a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard,
but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles under all the hair.
The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just
brushed the ceiling. He bent down, pi