cked up the door, and fitted it easily
back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. He turned
to look at them all.
Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh It’s not been an easy
journe .”
He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.
Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger.
Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was crouching,
terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.
An’ here’s Harry” said the giant.
Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the beetle
eyes were crinkled in a smile.
Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the giant. Yeh look a lot
like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer mum’s eyes.”
Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.
I demand that you leave at once, sir” he said. You are breaking and
entering”
Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,” said the giant; he reached over the
back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon’s hands, bent it into a
knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw it into a corner of
the room.
Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on.
Anyway  Harry,” said the giant, turning his back on the Dursleys, a
very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here  I mighta sat on it at
some point, but it’ll taste all right.”
From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly squashed
box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky
chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green icing.
Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but the words got
lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was, Who are you”
The giant chuckled.
True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and
Grounds at Hogwarts.”
He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry’s whole arm.
What about that tea then, eh” he said, rubbing his hands together. I’d
not say no ter summat stronger if yeh’ve got it, mind.”
His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and he
snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn’t see what he was
doing but when he drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire there. It
filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt the warmth
wash over him as though he’d sunk into a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle,
a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a
bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from before starting to make
tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody
said a thing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy,
slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon
said sharply, Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley.”
The giant chuckled darkly.
Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ anymore, Dursley, don’
worry.”
He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had never tasted
anything so wonderful, but he still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant.
Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said, I’m sorry, but
I still don’t really know who you are.”
The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his
hand.
Call me Hagrid,” he said, everyone does. An’ like I told yeh, I’m Keeper
of Keys at Hogwarts  yeh’ll know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.”
Er  no,” said Harry.
Hagrid looked shocked.
Sorry,” Harry said quickly.
Sorry” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back
into the shadows. It’s them as should be sorry I knew yeh weren’t gettin’
yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even know abou’ Hogwarts, fer
cryin’ out loud Did yeh never wonder where yer parents learned it all”
All what” asked Harry.
ALL WHAT” Hagrid thundered. Now wait jus’ one second”
He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut. The
Dursleys were cowering against the wall.
Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Dursleys, that this boy 
this boy  knows nothin’ abou’ about ANYTHING”
Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to school, after all, and
his marks weren’t bad.
I know some things,” he said. I can, you know, do math and stuff.”
But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, About our world, I mean.
Your world. My world. Yer parents’ world.”
What world”
Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.
DURSLEY” he boomed.
Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded
like Mimblewimble.” Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.
But yeh must know about yer mum and dad,” he said. I mean, they’re
famous. You’re famous.”
What My  my mum and dad weren’t famous, were they”
Yeh don’ know  yeh don’ know ” Hagrid ran his fingers through his
hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.
Yeh don’ know what yeh are” he said finally.
Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.
Stop” he commanded. Stop right there, sir I forbid you to tell the boy
anything”
A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious
look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled
with rage.
You never told him Never told him what was in the letter Dumbledore
left fer him I was there I saw Dumbledore leave it, Dursley An’ you’ve
kept it from him all these years”
Kept what from me” said Harry eagerly.
STOP I FORBID YOU” yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.
Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.
Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Hagrid. Harry  yer a wizard.”
There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind could
be heard.
I’m a what” gasped Harry.
A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which
groaned and sank even lower, an’ a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve
been trained up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else would yeh
be An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read yer letter.”
Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope,
addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, HutontheRock,
The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:
Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough
human left in him to die. Some say he’s still out there, bidin’ his time, like,
but I don’ believe it. People who was on his side came back ter ours. Some of
’em came outta kinda trances. Don’ reckon they could’ve done if he was
comin’ back.
Most of us reckon he’s still out there somewhere but lost his powers. Too
weak to carry on. ’Cause somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was
somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t counted on  I dunno what it was,
no one does  but somethin’ about you stumped him, all right.”
Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes, but
Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a
horrible mistake. A wizard Him How could he possibly be He’d spent his
life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon;
if he was really a wizard, why hadn’t they been turned into warty toads every
time they’d tried to lock him in his cupboard If he’d once defeated the
greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always been able to
kick him around like a football
Hagrid,” he said quietly, I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t
think I can be a wizard.”
To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.
Not a wizard, eh Never made things happen when you was scared or
angry”
Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about
 Harry had never been to London before. Although Hagrid seemed to know
where he was going, he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary
way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, and complained
loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow.
I don’t know how the Muggles manage without magic,” he said as they
climbed a brokendown escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with
shops.
Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily; all Harry had to do
was keep close behind him. They passed book shops and music stores,
hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it could sell
you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people.
Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them Were
there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks Might this not all be
some huge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up If Harry hadn’t known that
the Dursleys had no sense of humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow,
even though everything Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry
couldn’t help trusting him.
it every odd
thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious with him had happened
when he, Harry, had been upset or angr chased by Dudley’s gang, he
had somehow found himself out of their reach  dreading going to school
with that ridiculous haircut, he’d managed to make it grow back  and the
very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn’t he got his revenge, without even
realizing he was doing it Hadn’t he set a boa constrictor on him
Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively
beaming at him.
See” said Hagrid. Harry Potter, not a wizard  you wait, you’ll be
right famous at Hogwarts.”
But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a fight.
Haven’t I told you he’s not going” he hissed. He’s going to Stonewall
High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters and he needs all sorts
of rubbish  spell books and wands and ”
If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him,” growled
Hagrid. Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s son goin’ ter Hogwarts Yer mad. His
name’s been down ever since he was born. He’s off ter the finest school of
witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he won’t know
himself. He’ll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be
under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbled
I get that all the time.”
I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t sure the
snake could hear him. It must be really annoying.”
The snake nodded vigorously.
Where do you come from, anyway” Harry asked.
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
Was it nice there”
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on: This
specimen was bred in the zoo. Oh, I see  so you’ve never been to Brazil”
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of
them jump. DUDLEY MR. DURSLEY COME AND LOOK AT THIS
SNAKE YOU WON’T BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING”
Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.
Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by
surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened so
fast no one saw how it happened  one second, Piers and Dudley were
leaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back with howls of
horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s tank had
vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the
floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and started running for
the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low, hissing
voice said, Brazil, here I come . Thanksss, amigo.”
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
But the glass,” he kept saying, where did the glass go”
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea
while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber.
As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything except snap
playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were all back 