in
Uncle Vernon’s car, Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his
leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst
of all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say, Harry was
talking to it, weren’t you, Harry”
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting
on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. He managed to say, Go
 cupboard  stay  no meals,” before he collapsed into a chair, and Aunt
Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy.
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch. He didn’t
know what time it was and he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet.
Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the kitchen for some food.
He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as long
as he could remember, ever since he’d been a baby and his parents had died
in that car crash. He couldn’t remember being in the car when his parents had
died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long hours in his
cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light
and a burning pain on his forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, though
he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came from. He couldn’t
remember his parents at all. His aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and
of course he was forbidden to ask questions. There were no photographs of
them in the house.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some
unknown relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought or maybe hoped
that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers they
were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once while out
shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry furiously if he
knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying
anything. A wildlooking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily
at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually
shaken his hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a
word. The weirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed to
vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s gang hated
that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and
nobody liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.
summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his new video
camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first time out on his racing
bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet Drive on her
crutches.
Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley’s gang,
who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon
were all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and stupidest of the lot,
he was the leader. The rest of them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s
favorite sport: Harry Hunting.
This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house,
wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he could
see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going off to
secondary school and, for the first time in his life, he wouldn’t be with
Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at Uncle Vernon’s old private school,
Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on the other hand, was
going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudley thought this was
very funny.
They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,” he
told Harry. Want to come upstairs and practice”
No, thanks,” said Harry. The poor toilet’s never had anything as horrible
as your head down it  it might be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could
work out what he’d said.
One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy his Smeltings
uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. Figg’s. Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. It
turned out she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats, and she didn’t
seem quite as fond of them as before. She let Harry watch television and gave
him a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for several
years.
That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room for the family in his
brandnew uniform. Smeltings boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange
knickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried knobbly
sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren’t looking. This
was supposed to be good training for later life.
As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into
tears and said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, he looked so
handsome and grownup. Harry didn’t trust himself to speak. He thought two
of his ribs might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.
There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry went
in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. He
went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like dirty rags
swimming in gray water.
What’s this” he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened as they always
did if he dared to ask a question.
Your new school uniform,” she said.
Harry looked in the bowl again.
Oh,” he said, I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.”
Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. I’m dyeing some of Dudley’s
old things gray for you. It’ll look just like everyone else’s when I’ve
finished.”
Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. He sat down
at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look on his first
day at Stonewall High  like he was wearing bits of old elephant skin,
probably.
Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of
the smell from Harry’s new uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which he carried everywhere, on
the table.
They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat.
Get the mail, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon from behind his paper.
Make Harry get it.”
Get the mail, Harry.”
Make Dudley get it.”
Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley.”
Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Three things lay
on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon’s sister Marge, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a bill,
and  a letter for Harry.
Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant elastic
band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him. Who would He had
no friends, no other relatives  he didn’t belong to the library, so he’d never
even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed
so plainly there could be no mistake:
Mr. H. Potter
The Cupboard under the Stairs
4 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey
The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the
address was written in emeraldgreen ink. There was no stamp.
Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw a purple wax
seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake
surrounding a large letter H.
Hurry up, boy” shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. What are you
doing, checking for letter bombs” He chuckled at his own joke.
Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. He handed Uncle
Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to open the
yellow envelope.
Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over the
postcard.
Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. Ate a funny whelk ”
Dad” said Dudley suddenly. Dad, Harry’s got something”
Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which was written on the
same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of his
hand by Uncle Vernon.
That’s mine” said Harry, trying to snatch it back.
Who’d be writing to you” sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the letter open
with one hand and glancing at it. His face went from red to green faster than a
set of traffic lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seconds it was the grayish
white of old porridge.
PPPetunia” he gasped.
Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held it high out
of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read the first line. For a
moment it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her throat and
made a choking noise.
Vernon Oh my goodness  Vernon”
They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry and Dudley
were still in the room. Dudley wasn’t used to being ignored. He gave his
father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.
I want to read that letter,” he said loudly.
I want to read it,” said Harry furiously, as it’s mine.”
Get out, both of you,” croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing the letter back
inside its envelope.
Harry didn’t move.
I WANT MY LETTER” he shouted.
Let me see it” demanded Dudley.
OUT” roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and Dudley by the
scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming the kitchen door
behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but silent fight over
who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry, his glasses dangling
from one ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack between door and
floor.
Vernon,” Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, look at the
address  how could they possibly know where he sleeps You don’t think
they’re watching the house”
Watching  spying  might be following us,” muttered Uncle Vernon
wildly.
But what should we do, Vernon Should we write back Tell them we
don’t want ”
Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes pacing up and down the
kitchen.
No,” he said finally. No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t get an answer .
Yes, that’s best  we won’t do anything .”
But ”
I’m not having one in the house, Petunia Didn’t we swear when we took
him in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense”
That evening when he got back from work, Uncle Vernon did something he’d
never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.
Where’s my letter” said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed
through the door. Who’s writing to me”
No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said Uncle Vernon shortly.
I have burned it.”
It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, it had my cupboard on it.”
SILENCE” yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell from the
ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced his face into a smile,
which looked quite painful.
Er  yes, Harry  about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been
thinking  you’re really getting a bit big for it  we think it might be nice
if you moved into Dudley’s second bedroom.”
Why” said Harry.
Don’t ask questions” snapped his uncle. Take this stuff upstairs, now.”
The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia, one for visitors usually Uncle Vernon’s sister, Marge, one where
Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys and things that
wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It only took Harry one trip upstairs to
move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. He sat down on
the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here was broken. The
monthold video camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley
had once driven over the next door neighbor’s dog; in the corner was
Dudley’s firstever television set, which he’d put his foot through when his
favorite program had been canceled; there was a large birdcage, which had
once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school for a real air rifle,
which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley had sat on it.
Other shelves were 